# Exercise 2

## Tasks

0. Initialise a new project.

```bash
composer create-project symfony/skeleton mastermind
cd mastermind
composer require --dev phpunit/phpunit
```

1. Choose the simplest class in your solution that has no collaborators (other classes it depends on).

2. Define a "test list" for the chosen class.

    The test list should contain a list of behaviours you'd like to cover. It does not need to be complete,
    and you don't need to process it in order.
    The purpose of the test list is to organise your work and help you focus.
    While writing tests you'll often find yourself discovering new behaviours you'd like to cover. If this happens,
    simply add a new item to your list and carry on working on the current item.

    Example test list for the `CodePeg` class:

    * it can be cast to string
    * `equals()` returns true if two pegs are of the same colour
    * `equals()` returns false if two pegs are of a different colour
    * it throws an UnknownColourException if initialized with an unsupported colour (define supported colours in a class constant)

3. Test drive the implementation of the chosen class.

    Follow the process:

    1. Choose a test case (behaviour) to implement from your test list.

    2. Write down the test case in a new method of the test class.
    
       Try to keep it concise and readable. Treat it as an example of behaviour you're implementing.
       
       Example:

       ```php
       namespace App\Tests\Game;

       use App\Game\CodePeg;
       use App\Game\UnknownColourException;

       class CodePegTest extends TestCase
       {
           public function test_it_can_be_cast_to_string()
           {
               $codePeg = new CodePeg('Red');

               $this->assertSame('Red', (string) $codePeg);
           }
       }
       ```

    3. Run tests to see the new test failing:

        ```bash
        ./vendor/bin/phpunit
        ```

    4. Add just enough code to make the error message go away or to make the test pass.

       For example, if the error message says the class doesn't exist, create it and run the tests again.
       If the error message says the method doesn't exist, create it and run the tests again.
       If the failure message says the expected value is different to the actual one, write just enough code
       to make the test pass.

       Listen to your tests and only write enough code to get the error or failure go away.

    5. Refactor.

       As soon as you get the test to pass, look if you can improve the code (design), without changing its behaviour
       (without adding any new features too).

    6. Repeat steps 1-5 until you're done with implementing all behaviours defined in your test list.

       Don't worry if you missed any behaviours. If you discover them later you'll be always able to come back, write
       more tests and make them pass without breaking the previously written code.

## Teacher's solution

Behaviours to cover if you chose to implement the solution imposed by the teacher.
Follow the steps defined in the previous section.

1. Implement the [`CodePeg`](../src/Game/CodePeg.php) class.

    Drive the implementation with tests written in [`CodePegTest`](../tests/Game/CodePegTest.php).

    Behaviour to implement:

    * it can be cast to string
    * `equals()` returns true if two pegs are of the same colour
    * `equals()` returns false if two pegs are of a different colour
    * it throws an `UnknownColourException` if initialized with an unsupported colour (define supported colours in a class constant)

2. Implement the [`Feedback`](../src/Game/Feedback.php) class.

    Drive the implementation with tests written in [`FeedbackTest`](../tests/Game/FeedbackTest.php).

    Behaviour to implement:

    * it exposes the guess code
    * it exposes the exact matches
    * it exposes the near matches

3. Implement the [`Code`](../src/Game/Code.php) class.
   
    Drive the implementation with tests written in [`CodeTest`](../tests/Game/CodeTest.php).

    Behaviours to cover:

    * it is created from a string of code pegs
    * it is created from an array of code peg strings
    * matching two codes provides feedback with exact matches
    * matching two codes provides feedback with near matches
    * `length()` returns the number of pegs

    The `match()` method should return `Feedback` with exact and near matches calculated.

    Refer to [examples](../features/playing_mastermind.feature) when in doubt.

4. Implement the [`GameUuid`](../src/Game/GameUuid.php) class.

    Drive the implementation with tests written in [`GameUuidTest`](../tests/Game/GameUuidTest.php).

    Behaviours to cover:
    
    * `generated()` generates a new `GameUuid` instance
    * `existing()` creates a `GameUuid` instance from an existing uuid
    
    Feel free to use the `ramsey/uuid` package to generate new UUIDs.
